Okay this is a code review of my Spring
Boot application for MariaDB. This is a
working application going against the
MariaDB database now if you're not
familiar with MariaDB what it is, is
effectively a branch of MySQL and when
MySQL got acquired by Oracle
Corporation there was concern in the
community about what Oracle would do
with a free relational database like
MySQL so the Stewart of MySQL created
the branch and created MariaDB to
guarantee that the MySQL database would
always remain free and open source so
that's what MariaDB is and it is a
very close mirror and it does have a lot
of backward. I think it's supposed
supposed to be fully compatible with
MySQL. So the configuration for MariaDB
is very similar to MySQL but this is a
MariaDB specific application so I'm
using all the MariaDB database drivers
and properties in this example and I am
running against MariaDB running in a
Docker container on my local machine. So
let's take a look at the source code for
this and what we have here on line 10 is
the Entity annotation. So this is a standard
JPA class emulating a Product so we have an id value, a description, a price and
an imageUrl and saying that the id is a
generated value and just standard JPA
mapping stuff here and I am leveraging
Spring Data JPA which is going to be
using Hibernate 5 actually in
the background for this since I am
running Spring Boot version 1.5. Spring
Boot 1.4, we got upgraded to the latest
release of Hibernate and that is
Hibernate 5 so this is my Product
Repository it's implementing a CrudRepository and this is a Spring Data JPA
standard component for CrudRepository
and if you're not familiar with Spring
Data JPA
at runtime Spring Data JPA is going to
provide us an implementation of this
class.
I should say of this interface. So I do
like to do all my business logic in a
service layer so I've created a
interface for that and we just have a
few things here we have a list method,
getById, saveOrUpdate, delete or saveOr
Update by a ProductForm so I am
following a command pattern so I'm going
to bind my form to a command object and
bring that in so let's take a quick look
at the implementation of this now this
is my implementation it is annotated on
line 16 there as a Service and here I am
using constructor based dependency
injection to bring in the ProductRepository which will be provided by
Spring Data JPA
and then my ProductFormToProduct that
is a convertor, just a simple type
converter but it's also been set up as a
Spring manage component so the Spring
Framework is going to inject these into
my service class when it is
initialized and then you can see I've
provided an implementation for each one
of the methods of the ProductService
interface and we are leveraging the
Spring Data JPA repository for all these.
So now you can go ahead and review this
no big mysteries here, I don't think and
let's go ahead and take a look at the
controller class. So this has been
annotated as a Controller which tells
Spring to wire it up as a component
within the Spring context and the
RequestMapping controller mappings. Now
unlike the previous example I am using
setter based
dependency injection here or the ProductForm converter as well as the Product
Service, my implementation to ProductService. And you can see I've set up Request
Mapping on line 36. I take the root and
redirect it to product/list and that
gives me a list of products out of the
database I'm not doing any paging there
so nothing too overly complex
here and you can see on line 41 this is
going to return back a list of products
so I'll take in the Model and to
the products property I'm going to
attach a list from the ProductService
of products now let's take a quick look
at Thymeleaf, these are the Thymeleaf
templates and actually here's the
list since we are talking about that so this
is a standard list it gets a list of
products and iterates over it if you're
new to Thymeleaf I do have a course
specifically on Thymeleaf for you. I take a
deep dive, I'm using Thymeleaf and Bootstrap to do a little application and
we get into a lot of the meaning behind
the Thymeleaf tags and explore how to
use Thymeleaf in that course. So let's
see the next thing we want to take a
look at is the application.properties file this is where a lot of
important stuff is happening for the
MaraiaDB. Line 5 there is saying the
jdbc mariadb running on localhost
and it goes against port 3306
which is the same default port
as MySQL and then I'm going against the
database here spring boot_mariadb and in this case I am setting my
datasource username and password both to
root. Obviously is not something you
want to do in production you definitely
want to change those and probably not
have a super user account for your
application anyways that's a bad habit.
Now, line 8 there I am
specifying the MariaDB, JDBC driver and
then 10 and 11 what's going on
there is we are going to keep the data
source connection alive so if your
application doesn't have a lot of
activity on it, what can happen is the
socket connection to the database can
timeout get smacked down and cause you
problems and what this does is it keeps
it alive and keeps that socket
connection live there. Then line 16 this
is very handy especially in development,
is to show-sql and that will write out
the Hibernate SQL right to your console
and we'll be able to see that and then on
line 19 I am using the ddl-auto create to
automatically create and then drop the
database tables. So this is something
great for development, it's going to
generate the database tables right based on your JPA mapping but
definitely not something you'd want to
be doing in production, that would be
very bad because you'll be dropping your
your database tables. In production there
is an option to run and validate so you
can set that to a validate mode and it's
going to make sure that your production
database tables do infact match the JPA
mappings that your setup otherwise if
you don't do that and you have an error
and you would get runtime errors rather
than start up now. Line 21 and 22 with
Hibernate 5 we got some differences in
how mapping is handling, how tables and
columns are named and this is just
setting those to the Spring way of doing
things and then on line 24 we are using
the MySQL 5 and ODB dialect for Hibernate
so there's supposed to be
100% capability between or
compatibility between MariaDB and
MySQL so this dialect is going to tell
Hibernate any nuances of the SQL for the
underlying relational database instance
so in this case we are using MySQL to
maintain compatibility between Hibernate
and the MariaDB so let's go ahead and
run this now, starting it up and my dog
is snoring softly in the background I
apologize if this mic is picking that up
hopefully not and if so I apologize for
the distraction and we are up and
running now. I'm going to come come over
and let's go to this. I'm going to
refresh this we shouldn't have any
products so there's no products there
let's go and create one and some URL, so
I'm not doing any data validation here
this is just a real simple example. I'm going to
submit that, now we can see that that is
there. Let's go back and so we can see
how this is available in the database I
can go in
edit it and let's do 555 and we
see that this is updated and just double
check we'll go back to list make sure that
is there so we can see that 555 has persisted to the database now
just as a reminder all the source code
that I showed you for this whole project
is available on GitHub my account is
springframeworkguru and you can find
this repository at springframeworkguru/spring-boot-mariadb-example